title: Self improvement as a developer through self-questioning
slug: self-improvement-as-a-developer-through-self-questioning
status: published
date: January 7 2015
tags: testing
-------
I finally got around to watch [DDH](https://twitter.com/dhh)'s [talk at RailsConf last year about writing software](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9LfmrkyP81M). I love his reference at the end about the fact that every piece of code you write at first is just a draft. That's very much true. One thing that I've noticed a lot over the past five years as a developer is how a lot of people will stick to their first version of the piece of code they've just written. They often say "Ow hey, this now works so I must be done. Better send in that pull request." and they go on with their next assignment. Because the faster you work, the better of a programmer you are, right?

Not so much. I fully agree when DHH (and a lot of other developer, for that matter) says that a big part of improving yourself as a developer comes from reviewing your own code right after you wrote it. What did I actually write now? Can certain parts of it be improved? Do I need to refactor one or more things? And then just doing it right then and there.

Reviewing your own code isn't the same as reviewing other developer's code because you tend to be less strict for yourself. You tend to give in sooner and be more content with what you wrote because you _were_ the person who wrote it. It's not that hard admitting to yourself that you wrote something poorly, it's the actual doing of re-writing your own code that can be hard for some developers. This can have various reasons ranging from deadlines, admitting to your peers/colleagues that you were wrong somewhere to just plain laziness. Admitting it to yourself is the first step but in order to improve both yourself and your codebase, the actual doing of rewriting is the logical and inevitable second step.

Your deadlines won't suffer from fast written code, your project will. What do you really want? Fast and in-time delivery or a great project to deliver? Sadly most of the time it's the former at a lot of companies. The truth actually is that if you write clean code and well-thought of code throughout the entire course of the project, your project, most of the time, will be finished in time. And if not then at least you have a great project to deliver. If it's really so that you simply don't have enough time to write clean code than perhaps you should re-evaluate some things at your company. Perhaps your development process needs to be reviewed? Do the main tools you work with need to be replaced or updated? Is the (hostile) working environment slowing you down? If you or anybody else can't or won't change anything about that than perhaps it's time to look for other opportunities.

Your colleagues won't burn you if you admit you could improve your own code. They'd learn from your insights, could give great feedback in the process and will respect you more as a developer who admits the mistakes he/she has made then as a developer who hides and denies them. Your boss will be happy that you're teaching your colleagues and will notice the way your projects improve over time when you start writing cleaner code.

As for laziness... you'll never grow as a developer until you start questioning the way you write code. Writing code and being content at the first sight when you get something working will forever leave you at the level you are at. Improvement as a developer comes from learning. Learning from others: reading books, reading blog posts, watching conference talks, etc. But a big part of improving yourself as a developer comes from learning from yourself. Learning from the mistakes you've made, refactoring code you've written and constantly questioning your own code. Never stop questioning yourself as a developer.

The next time you write a piece of code and you're finished, go over everything again and _truly_ ask yourself the question: "Can this be improved?"
